# SnydersWeb-v3
This is an archival copy of my personal web site completed back in 2005.

Shortly after launching the Snyder's Web - 2002 version I became curious about using the browser's native XML functionality to pull in external content instead of using an IFrame. Since that time I had researched it off and on but I never was quite able to get something I was satisfied with. I was happy with the 2002 version, but was unsatisfied with a couple of aspects of it - mainly having to maintain 2 different versions for both legacy browsers and regular browsers. So for every page, there were two that must be maintained. The other huge downside to the 2002 version is that it wasn't search engine friendly - as a result my LegacyBrowser version got spidered and would appear on search engine results.

Since that time I have learned XHTML and code almost exclusively to that standard. If you're a web developer, this is the best and only way to make the jump, quit HTML 4.01 cold turkey and learn to write a document that passes the W3C's validator. The client XML objects require the document to fully comply with that standard - it cannot pull in HTML 4.01 since it is technically not XML, unlike XHTML. A side benefit is that it forces the overall quality of my coding be high.

Technically this site is considerably more advanced than the old versions - the interface is similar, the old sites uses JavaScript to provide information about the interface context whereas this version looks at the external document XHTML and changes the interface accordingly. The advantage to this is that the static (non JavaScript) driven version and JavaScript/XML version use the same document. Though this requires care must be taken to ensure that the interface elements are coded consistently in an exact pattern. Another great enhancement is that the old one used a print button to reformat the page for printing - this one takes full advantage of Print StyleSheets - all the user has to do is just print and it'll kick in.

A nice side effect to the way this site is coded, any page could serve as the entry page. The old site had a "front door" that had to be used to invoke the DHTML interface.

One downside to DHTML web sites is that they do break the back button - and this one unfortunately is no exception. Sadly there is no way for me to alter the browser's history - If I could alter that history for good means, good bet that malicious coders would use it for less than honorable purposes. This site is set up to jump to the last accessed page in the event refresh is clicked. Incidentally that would also allow a user to bookmark a specific page when before the 2002 version used a "bookmark" button. Another downside to this site is that animations may not be as smooth on older machines due to the large number of transparent effects on this site. Nevertheless it will work.

The look of the site is loosely based on the user interface in Doom 3. I liked the way it handled things, the way it moved and gave me a few neat ideas which you see before you. The hardest part of the graphical end of this site was the background. It took a while to get a nice circuit background tile that conveyed the feeling I was after without being too busy. The little spark effects you may be seeing were to enhance the whole future interface look.

This entire website is being updated and revised under my SnydersWeb-v4 where I have a chance to pour all my experience I've had since orginally constructing this site.
